---
layout: post
title: Laika
permalink: laika
theme: white
category: Visualization
tags: [Twitter, PhiloGL]
thumb: assets/laika/1.jpg
position: center center

---

<iframe width="750" height="422" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/Bnr2MF7FK-A?rel=0&amp;controls=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true">
</iframe>

Laika is a data visualization showing geolocated activity on Twitter
around the world. The first iteration of the project was done during
hackweek. We had great feedback from our CEO and VP of design so per
request the project turned into a live visual that is currently shown in the
displays around the office.

The main view shows a globe view, with day and night textures,
displaying geolocated Tweets and relevant Tweets around news (in the top
part). Click play to watch the short video.

<video src="/assets/laika/l1.webmhd.webm" controls="true">
</video>



Within this globe view we can focus on a particular city and fetch a
timeline of relevant Tweets happening there. Click below to watch the
short transition.

<video src="/assets/laika/l22.webmhd.webm" controls="true">
</video>



Although people like the globe view, this view hides 50%
of what's happening in the world at each moment. We added an unfolding
of the globe into a plane for this. Click play below to watch the short
video.

<video src="/assets/laika/l3.webmhd.webm" controls="true">
</video>



Following the "Overview, zoom and filter" mantra you can focus in a city
to get relevant Tweets of what's happening there along with news of that
city.

<video src="/assets/laika/l5.webmhd.webm" controls="true" poster="/assets/laika/poster.png">
</video>

## Touch displays

I extended this visualization recently to support touch displays. Some
of the features added are dragging the globe, tapping on cities,
pinching to zoom in/out, etc.

This was shown at CES 2014 as an official visualization for Twitter and will
be used in other events like SXSW and more.
